# jschemer
A simple utility for generating clean HTML from JSON Schema data using Node.

## Install
`npm install --save jschemer`

## Usage

### Command Line
```sh

# Compile a single file to the /out folder (default)
jschemer schema.json

# Compile the /schemas directory to the /docs folder
jschemer schema.json -o docs
```

Option             | Description
------------------ | -----------
`-o`, `--out`      | The name of the directory to output files to. Defaults to `out`.
`-c`, `--css`      | The path to the CSS file to use to style the documentation. Defaults to `out/jschemer.css`.
`-r`, `--readme`   | A `README.md` file to include in the generated documentation.
`-i`, `--ignore`   | A list of filenames to ignore.

### Node
```js
const jschemer = require('jschemer');

const path = 'schemas'; // may be a directory or single file

const opts = {
  out:    '/docs',
  ignore: ['ignored.json'],
  css:    'css/custom.css',
  readme: 'README.md'
};

// the jschemer object is a function which returns a Promise when called
jschemer(path, opts).then(/* code to run when documentation has finished generating */)
```

## CSS
jschemer comes with a default CSS file, `jschemer.css`. You can easily customize this file, or use your own CSS file by passing a `css` option to jschemer. The HTML generated by jschemer is designed to be easy to style: each type of object and property is given an easily-identifiable class, such as `additional-items` or `description`. jschemer's default CSS is structured as follows:

* Each JSON Schema keyword/attribute is associated with exactly one CSS class in the generated documentation (e.g. `class=max-length`).

* camelCase keywords in JSON Schema are given a hyphen-separated CSS class name, e.g. `max-items`.

* HTML elements in the generated documentation are also given CSS classes labeling the data type they apply to: `array-prop`, `numeric-prop`, `object-prop`, `string-prop`. Attributes that apply to any data type, such as `type`, are just given the class `prop`. Metadata keywords such as `title` are given the class `meta-prop`.

An example of the outputted HTML, with CSS classes:
```html
<div class='additional-items array-prop'>
  <h2>Additional Items</h2>
  <code>true</code>
</div>
```

## Notes:

* If you would prefer the properties of a schema to display in a different order, I recommend using CSS3 Flexbox's `order` property to change their order. Note that this must then be set on all the sibling elements as well.

* jschemer assumes your JSON data is valid according to v4 of the JSON Schema specification. You should validate your JSON Schema data before running jschemer.
